Hello? Yeah, I'm sorry. I haven't... The
dictaphone, one of the tapes wouldn't inject. I'm
sorry. But, um, so... So you're talking about they
didn't have, um... They weren't being imprisoned
because... Yeah.
Uh-huh. Uh-huh.
work
processes, agriculture, producing, bar, so
forth, they were then able to provide a surplus and
really class it over. Then it was possible to say,
no, we won't kill it, no, we'll turn it into slaves.
They worked for us because no matter what, we live,
we get it by working hard to produce some surplus
that'll go to us. But how does that...
Thou shalt not kill became the rule. Instead of
killing your foe, you turn them into slaves, and
from one country after another, slavery is
developed. And then, however, the slave system
reached a point where it became unproductive, or
counterproductive is the word, to continue
slavery because there were slavery goals because
the slaves were getting organized and fighting in
order to gain the freedom. Furthermore, they
found that it was possible to produce more by
giving some right to people on the land in certain
areas where they could kill on the subject. This
was theirs. The
serfs were there. However, they had to pay a
certain percentage of the sharecropping of what
they produced to the landlord. So what happened
was it was slavery . And
then
finally, I don't want to spend too much time on it,
but I'd have to say the process of first
development reached the point where you had the
development of capitalist society. Now, what the
Marxists have done, well, of course, we believe
that society started with permits, you know,
society, but it's going to go up to the US. will
be
also a communal society that's no longer
permanent. I see. It will be a communal society
where the productive force will reach the point
where it is possible for people to live and that
there's a system. Yeah. I see. Okay. Yeah. Well, I
was going to ask, were there any... So you were
influenced by the people that you listened to on
street corners and by going... to the Young
Workers League meetings and from, yeah, your
labor? Being a Jew, were you discriminated
against?
Yeah.
Uh-huh.
I'm...
Yeah.
And also when you worked for Mr. Barlow and they
tried to make you work on a Saturday or Sunday, your
only day off.
No, but as far as workers being... Yeah. After
we worked six days... Yeah.
All right. You and your wife, Lil, were members of
the Communist Party when... And you were... Why
were you one of the 11 to be...
Yes. Yeah. Why didn't they pick Lil, or why didn't
they...
Well, they picked the top leaders of the party, so
they picked the members of the National Board
of... I see. The National Board of... 12 members.
And I was one of them. I
see. I see. Okay. So, um, well, during the, during,
during your trial, you talk about, um, to begin
with, you were, I don't know if the word's
misrepresented, But the jury wasn't exactly, you
complain about the jury?
Uh-huh.
Which
was misquoted in
the Times, correct? Yes. Well, the New York Times
and other had headlines on it.
You were
charged
with
conspiring
to teach. You were accused for conspiring to
teach. Yeah. Now, all through the trial, the way in
which you testified, you were conspiring to
teach. There was no charge against you at that time
at all. I'll show you something more about the
trial. Mm-hmm.
Mm-hmm. And
then what happened was that the judge said yes. If
you give them 90 more days, then they'll listen to
the government. Now,
what's interesting
here is that at that point in time, the judge, to say
that the judge in our trial had not yet been chosen,
I mean, the judge chosen was the very judge that had
made that very prejudicial remark. Yeah.
Part of us were already found as guilty of trying to
overthrow the government, let alone trying to do
something. Yeah. And he became, his name was
Harold Martin, he became the judge in our trial.
Yeah. So obviously, it was tough to get him to
answer. And also, you said that at one point, that
when you tried to introduce evidence about the
Communist Party's actual programs, that they
ruled them out? Yeah, they said, well, he even said
at one point to the judge, Now,
we are not interested in the fact that you may have
been good boys on other matters. Uh-huh. That you
may have done good things here and there. What
we're interested in is about this conspiracy
business. Uh-huh. But there was no conspiracy,
and all you could judge us by is what we were doing.
We were helping to organize the unemployed. We
were helping... We
were
one of the leading forces in the country that
helped bring social security into the American
people, that helped to win the right to organize
the strike. We were very active in the building of
the customer unions and CIOs. We were in the
forefront of the fight for black freedom, for the
rights of black people. We were against the toll
tax in the South, or the ex-religious laws, other
things. Uh-huh.
Uh-huh.
It's not that
the worse the
better, that the worst conditions will become the
sooner that the revolution goes. We believe that
the more you involve people and organize and
struggle to better their conditions, the better
off you are going to be in order to open up their eyes
to what the real possibilities were for a
different kind of a new country and a different
kind of a new world. And therefore, the objective
was to
win as much as you can
for the people because they could not get it unless
they fought. No one was going to give it to them. If
there were going to be unions, if there could be
higher wages, if there could be shorter hours, an
eight-hour day, other things they'd have to fight
for. And as they became confident about their own
strength and what could be accomplished for their
own unity, they would begin to think ahead to a day
when it would be possible to bring more radical
change. And
that was the relationship between what we were
doing at practice and our ultimate goal. And so
they dismissed all of this then, what you were
actually doing?
Well, we were able to speak some of it in. And so,
well, so there was...
As far as he was concerned, that had nothing to do
with what the charge was all about. So how exactly
did they go about attacking you? How did they go
about attacking you then? They attacked your
ideology? or what they, their interpretation of
Marxism?
Uh-huh.
Uh-huh. The
Communist Manifesto that
I mentioned before, Karl Marx's Revives,
Capital, Writings of Lenin, all of those classics
of Marxism. Many of them weren't 100 years old, or
not going to be 100 years old, or put on trial. And
then they would take out a sentence book here,
there, out of context, and read it, and try to get a
jury to understand what it was all about. Yeah.
Uh-huh.
You
wanted to use, as part of your testimony, an
article you had written in 1938, Notes on the
Defense of American Democracy.
The
only point you have
to do is show its limitations in the capitalism.
Uh-huh.
Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. So,
had you been able to use certain articles in your
testimony, do you think it would have You could
have...
No. Uh-huh. To stand up. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Deviant.
Yeah. that
didn't occur in any of the trials. However, in
1957, it began to change in the country. It didn't
change a certain extent. The party was out of the
way. Then the Supreme Court, in its composition,
changed with Earl Warren becoming Supreme Court
Justice against Vincent, who did the Supreme
Court Justice in our trial, our court, by taking
over the Supreme Court. Uh-huh.
Yeah. Well. Uh-huh. It didn't work. They weren't
retroactive.
Yeah. Yes. Yes. Well, do you think they asked you
about your trips abroad to the civil war in Spain
and the USSR also just to make you look worse? Of
course. In the eyes of the jury, yeah.
Because somehow I was a kind of poor agent. Yeah.
And it was against the law for you to go to Spain?
Yes. At
that time, or afterwards, there was a so-called
neutrality act. Uh-huh.
Uh-huh.
Uh-huh. And
I remember,
at that period, they got the Christianity Act,
which was what did anyone travel to Spain. Yeah. So
that situation, I did go to Spain twice. I see. So
then, OK, so then you were all, the case ended with
all of you being indicted, correct? And even, is it
Easterman, your lawyer? Yes,
we have four lawyers. And he was given four months
in prison for, what was their, what did they use as
an excuse for that? Well, what happened was, when
the trial was over, the
judge said...
Uh
huh. Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, you were asked or told to jump bail. I mean,
why? You kind of, you may... Okay. Okay.
Uh-huh.
Uh-huh. Uh-huh.
Uh-huh
Yeah
and
therefore it was impossible to know whether the
Korean War was going to be two or more wars.
Furthermore, because we didn't know what the FBI
was going to do, they had one decision to make. In
fact, in my book I have a chapter called Yeah.
Yeah.
Mm-hmm.
didn't you think that was insensitive of them
knowing that you had a family and
well as i say in the
book
They
say, well, look, I have children and family,
therefore I shouldn't. Yeah.
And I also say quite
honestly in the book that I wasn't sure whether it
was because I was more fearful of doing that than
going in and doing my time. Yeah. So yourself, Gus
Hall, Robert Thompson, and Henry Winston were
asked to go under. Well, when you did go under, your
wife and your children were harassed. by the FBI,
incredibly, right?
Yes, in fact, I was able to get 20,000 pages of that.
Of a million possible pages?
Yes, that's what they claimed it was, or something
like that. Well, did you have any idea how
extensive the FBI and how thorough their
investigation was at the time? Or was it only in
retrospect in 78 when you got hold of the...
Well, it's only in retrospect, because I always
knew that they were active.
But
interestingly
enough, everything that they had done, they could
not know the right way to do it. We eluded them for
more than half a year. Because actually, the only
way they were able to find it on their own was if they
had a plan for a time to put it on their own. But they
didn't have anything like that.
Yes.
You wrote... Uh-huh. Yeah. ... Yeah.
Uh-huh. According
to the law, . Yeah, so you stayed with several
people in basements. You stayed with several
people, couples. Were you in
contact? You were in contact a lot with Henry
Winston. How about before Leavenworth, were you
in contact with Gus Hall at all? Oh, yes, sure.
After all, before Leavenworth?
Yes. You mean in the
underground? Yes. In Mexico?
Uh-huh.
Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah.
So you were submitting political articles under
the name John Swift?
So what did you write? You wrote one article, the
parasitism of, or parasitism, I'm not sure of the
pronunciation. The parasitism, or the
parasitism of U.S. economy? Yeah, the
parasitism, sort of war economy. I was taking
issue with the notion that
Truman had known just at one point that by spending
the military, we were producing prosperity for
the country, and this was therefore having
Mr.
Green? Can you hold on one more minute? I need to
turn the tape over. Hold on.